Good morning everyone. Let's kick off our BI metrics planning session for the executive dashboard.
Thanks Sarah. I've prepared an overview of the core metrics we should prioritize for the C-suite.
Perfect. Let's start with revenue metrics. We need real-time visibility into MRR, ARR, and growth rates.
Absolutely. The CFO specifically requested daily revenue tracking with month-over-month comparisons.
For revenue, I suggest we break it down by product line, geography, and customer segment.
We should also include customer acquisition cost and lifetime value. Those are critical KPIs.
Good point David. Let's move to customer metrics. What's essential for the executive team?
Churn rate is number one. We need both logo churn and revenue churn displayed prominently.
Net Promoter Score and customer satisfaction scores should be there too. Weekly updates minimum.
Don't forget about customer engagement metrics - daily active users, feature adoption rates.
Excellent. Now for operational metrics. What do the executives need to see?
Employee productivity metrics, sprint velocity for engineering, and support ticket resolution times.
The CEO wants to see our burn rate and runway prominently. That's non-negotiable.
We should add pipeline coverage ratio and sales conversion rates for the sales metrics section.
Let's talk about data freshness. How real-time does this need to be?
Financial metrics need to be updated hourly. Customer metrics can be daily.
I disagree. Customer churn should be real-time. It's too critical to wait.
We need to consider our data pipeline capacity. Real-time for everything isn't feasible.
Let's prioritize. What are the top 5 metrics the CEO looks at every morning?
Based on our meetings: ARR, burn rate, customer churn, pipeline coverage, and NPS.
Those five should be real-time or near real-time. Everything else can be daily.
Agreed. I'll work on the data architecture to support those refresh rates.
Now about visualization. The executives prefer simple, clear charts. No complex graphics.
Traffic light system for KPIs - green, yellow, red based on targets.
Trend lines are crucial. They want to see 13-week rolling trends for key metrics.
We should include variance analysis - actual versus budget and forecast.
Let's discuss drill-down capabilities. How deep should executives be able to go?
Two levels maximum. Summary view, then one level of detail. Keep it simple.
They should be able to filter by time period, region, and product line at minimum.
I'll implement role-based access control. Not all executives should see all metrics.
Good thinking. CFO needs financial details, CPO needs product metrics, and so on.
What about mobile access? The CEO specifically requested dashboard access on his phone.
Mobile-responsive design is a must. Maybe even a dedicated mobile app eventually.
Let's start with responsive web. We can consider native apps in phase two.
Alerting is critical. What thresholds trigger notifications to executives?
Any metric going red should trigger immediate alerts. Yellow can be daily summaries.
Churn spike over 2% should alert immediately. Same with burn rate exceeding plan by 10%.
I'll set up intelligent alerting to avoid alert fatigue. Anomaly detection, not just thresholds.
Perfect. Let's wrap up with timeline. When can we deliver the MVP dashboard?
If we focus on the top 5 metrics first, we could have something in two weeks.
The data pipelines for real-time metrics will take at least three weeks to properly test.
I think four weeks for a solid MVP is realistic. Better to do it right than rush.
Let's commit to four weeks for MVP with the top 5 metrics, then iterate from there.
Agreed. Let's do this!